docs/docker-images/nginx.md, before:

# NGINX

The [Lagoon `nginx` image Dockerfile](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-images/blob/main/images/nginx/Dockerfile). Based on the official [`openresty/openresty` images](https://hub.docker.com/r/openresty/openresty/).

This Dockerfile is intended to be used as a base for any web servers within Lagoon.

## Lagoon adaptions

The default exposed port of nginx containers is port `8080`.

This image is prepared to be used on Lagoon. There are therefore some things already done:

* Folder permissions are automatically adapted with [`fix-permissions`](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-images/blob/main/images/commons/fix-permissions), so this image will work with a random user.
* The files within `/etc/nginx/*` are parsed through [`envplate`](https://github.com/kreuzwerker/envplate) with a container-entrypoint.

## Included `NGINX` configuration \(`static-files.conf`\)

!!! warning "Warning:"
    By default `NGINX` only serves static files - this can be used for static sites that don't require a database or PHP components: for example, static site generators like [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) or [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/).

If you need PHP, have a look at the `php-fpm` image and use `nginx` and `php-fpm` in tandem.

Build the content during the build process and inject it into the `nginx` container.

## Helpers

### `redirects-map.conf`

In order to create redirects, we have `redirects-map.conf` in place. This helps you to redirect marketing domains to sub-sites or do non-www to www redirects. **If you have a lot of redirects, we suggest having `redirects-map.conf` stored next to your code for easier maintainability.**

!!! Note "Note:"
    If you only have a few redirects, there's a handy trick to create the redirects with a `RUN` command in your `nginx.dockerfile`.

Here's an example showing how to redirect `www.example.com` to `example.com` and preserve the request:

```bash
RUN echo "~^www.example.com http://example.com\$request_uri;" >> /etc/nginx/redirects-map.conf
```

To get more details about the various types of redirects that can be achieved, see the documentation within the [`redirects-map.conf`](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-images/blob/main/images/nginx/redirects-map.conf) directly.

After you put the `redirects-map.conf` in place, you also need to include it in your `nginx.dockerfile` in order to get the configuration file into your build.

```bash title="nginx.dockerfile"
COPY redirects-map.conf /etc/nginx/redirects-map.conf
```

### Basic Authentication

If you want to protect your site via basic authentication, you can do this by defining the environment variables `BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME` and `BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD` within your `.lagoon.env.environment` files. For further explanation on how to set up Environment Variables on Lagoon, [check here](../using-lagoon-advanced/environment-variables.md).

## Environment Variables

Environment variables are meant to contain common information for the `nginx` container.

| Environment Variable | Default | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `BASIC_AUTH` | `restricted` | By not setting `BASIC_AUTH` this will instruct Lagoon to automatically enable basic authentication if `BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME` and `BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD` are set. To disable basic authentication even if `BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME` and `BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD` are set, set `BASIC_AUTH` to `off`. |
| `BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME` | \(not set\) | Username for basic authentication |
| `BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD` | \(not set\) | Password for basic authentication \(unencrypted\) |
| `FAST_HEALTH_CHECK` | \(not set\) | If set to `true` this will redirect GET requests from certain user agents \(StatusCake, Pingdom, Site25x7, Uptime, nagios\) to the lightweight Lagoon service healthcheck. |

Commit message:

Document new NEWRELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED env var. Minor formatting/content changes to environment variables section for all services.

docs/docker-images/nginx.md, after:

# NGINX

The [Lagoon `nginx` image Dockerfile](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-images/blob/main/images/nginx/Dockerfile). Based on the official [`openresty/openresty` images](https://hub.docker.com/r/openresty/openresty/).

This Dockerfile is intended to be used as a base for any web servers within Lagoon.

## Lagoon adaptions

The default exposed port of nginx containers is port `8080`.

This image is prepared to be used on Lagoon. There are therefore some things already done:

* Folder permissions are automatically adapted with [`fix-permissions`](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-images/blob/main/images/commons/fix-permissions), so this image will work with a random user.
* The files within `/etc/nginx/*` are parsed through [`envplate`](https://github.com/kreuzwerker/envplate) with a container-entrypoint.

## Included `NGINX` configuration \(`static-files.conf`\)

!!! warning "Warning:"
    By default `NGINX` only serves static files - this can be used for static sites that don't require a database or PHP components: for example, static site generators like [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/), [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) or [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/).

If you need PHP, have a look at the `php-fpm` image and use `nginx` and `php-fpm` in tandem.

Build the content during the build process and inject it into the `nginx` container.

## Helpers

### `redirects-map.conf`

In order to create redirects, we have `redirects-map.conf` in place. This helps you to redirect marketing domains to sub-sites or do non-www to www redirects. **If you have a lot of redirects, we suggest having `redirects-map.conf` stored next to your code for easier maintainability.**

!!! Note "Note:"
    If you only have a few redirects, there's a handy trick to create the redirects with a `RUN` command in your `nginx.dockerfile`.

Here's an example showing how to redirect `www.example.com` to `example.com` and preserve the request:

```bash
RUN echo "~^www.example.com http://example.com\$request_uri;" >> /etc/nginx/redirects-map.conf
```

To get more details about the various types of redirects that can be achieved, see the documentation within the [`redirects-map.conf`](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-images/blob/main/images/nginx/redirects-map.conf) directly.

After you put the `redirects-map.conf` in place, you also need to include it in your `nginx.dockerfile` in order to get the configuration file into your build.

```bash title="nginx.dockerfile"
COPY redirects-map.conf /etc/nginx/redirects-map.conf
```

### Basic Authentication

Basic authentication is enabled automatically when the `BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME`
and `BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD` [environment
variables](../using-lagoon-advanced/environment-variables.md) are set.

!!! warning "Warning:"
    Automatic basic auth configuration is provided for convenience. It should not be considered a secure method of protecting your website or private data.

## Environment Variables

Some options are configurable via [environment
variables](../using-lagoon-advanced/environment-variables.md).

| Environment Variable | Default    | Description |
| :------------------- | :--------- | :--- |
| BASIC_AUTH           | restricted | Set to `off` to disable basic authentication.                                                                                                                  |
| BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME  | (not set)  | Username for basic authentication.                                                                                                                             |
| BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD  | (not set)  | Password for basic authentication (unencrypted).                                                                                                               |
| FAST_HEALTH_CHECK    | (not set)  | Set to `true` to redirect GET requests from certain user agents (StatusCake, Pingdom, Site25x7, Uptime, nagios) to the lightweight Lagoon service healthcheck. |
