docs/using_lagoon/lagoon_yml.md, before:

# .lagoon.yml

The `.lagoon.yml` file is the central file to set up your project. It contains configuration in order to do the following:

* [Define routes for accessing your sites](#routes).
* [Define pre-rollout tasks](#pre-rollout-tasks-pre_rolloutirun).
* [Define post-rollout tasks](#post-rollout-tasks-post_rolloutirun).
* [Set up SSL certificates](#ssl-configuration-tls-acme).
* [Add cron jobs for environments](#cron-jobs-environmentsnamecronjobs)

The `.lagoon.yml` file must be placed at the root of your Git repository.

## Example `.lagoon.yml`

This is an example `.lagoon.yml` which showcases all settings that are possible. You will need to adapt it to your needs.


```
docker-compose-yaml: docker-compose.yml

environment_variables:
  git_sha: 'true'

tasks:
  pre-rollout:
    - run:
        name: drush sql-dump
        command: mkdir -p /app/web/sites/default/files/private/ && drush sql-dump --ordered-dump --gzip --result-file=/app/web/sites/default/files/private/pre-deploy-dump.sql.gz
        service: cli
  post-rollout:
    - run:
        name: drush cim
        command: drush -y cim
        service: cli
        shell: bash
    - run:
        name: drush cr
        command: drush -y cr
        service: cli

routes:
  insecure: Redirect

environments:
  master:
    monitoring_urls:
      - "https://www.example.com"
      - "https://www.example.com/special_page"
    routes:
      - nginx:
        - example.com
        - example.net
        - "www.example.com":
            tls-acme: 'true'
            insecure: Redirect
            hsts: max-age=31536000
        - "example.ch":
            annotations:
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/permanent-redirect: https://www.example.ch$request_uri
        - www.example.ch
    types:
      mariadb: mariadb
    templates:
      mariadb: mariadb.master.deployment.yml
    rollouts:
      mariadb: statefulset
    cronjobs:
     - name: drush cron
       schedule: "H * * * *" # This will run the cron once per hour.
       command: drush cron
       service: cli
  staging:
    cronjobs:
     - name: drush cron
       schedule: "H * * * *" # This will run the cron once per hour.
       command: drush cron
       service: cli
```


## General Settings

### `docker-compose-yaml`

Tells the build script which docker-compose YAML file should be used, in order to learn which services and containers should be deployed. This defaults to `docker-compose.yml`, but could be used for a specific Lagoon docker-compose YAML file if you need something like that.

### `environment_variables.git_sha`

This setting allows you to enable injecting the deployed Git SHA into your project as an environment variable. By default this is disabled. Setting the value to`true`  sets the SHA as the environment variable `LAGOON_GIT_SHA`.

## Tasks

There are different type of tasks you can define, and they differ when exactly they are executed in a build flow:

### Pre-Rollout Tasks - `pre_rollout.[i].run`

The tasks defined as `pre_rollout` tasks will run against your project _after_ the new images have been built successfully, and _before_ the project gets altered in any way. This feature enables you, for example, to create a database dump before the rollout is running. This will make it easier to roll back in case of an issue with the rollout.

### Post-Rollout Tasks - `post_rollout.[i].run`

Here you can specify tasks which need to run against your project, _after_:

* All images have been successfully built.
* All containers are updated with the new images.
* All containers are running have passed their readiness checks.

Common uses for post-rollout tasks include running `drush updb`, `drush cim`, or clearing  various caches.

* `name`
  * The name is an arbitrary label for making it easier to identify each task in the logs.
* `command`
  * Here you specify what command should run. These are run in the WORKDIR of each container, for Lagoon images this is `/app`, keep this in mind if you need to `cd` into a specific location to run your task.
* `service`
  * The service which to run the task in. If following our drupal-example, this will be the CLI container, as it has all your site code, files, and a connection to the database. Typically you do not need to change this.
* `shell`
  * Which shell should be used to run the task in. By default `sh` is used, but if the container also has other shells \(like `bash`, you can define it here\). This is useful if you want to run some small if/else bash scripts within the post-rollouts. \(see the example above how to write a script with multiple lines\).

Note: If you would like to temporarily disable pre/post-rollout tasks during a deployment, you can set either of the following environment variables in the API at the project or environment level \(see how on [Environment Variables](environment_variables.md)\).

* `LAGOON_PREROLLOUT_DISABLED=true`
* `LAGOON_POSTROLLOUT_DISABLED=true`

## Routes

### `routes.autogenerate.enabled`

This allows for the disabling of the automatically created routes \(NOT the custom routes per environment, see below for them\) all together.

### `routes.autogenerate.allowPullrequests`

This allows pull request to get autogenerated routes when route autogeneration is disabled.

```
routes:
  autogenerate:
    enabled: false
    allowPullrequests: true
```

### `routes.autogenerate.insecure`

This allows you to define the behavior of the automatic creates routes \(NOT the custom routes per environment, see below for more\). The following options are allowed:

* `Allow` simply sets up routes for both HTTP and HTTPS \(this is the default\).
* `Redirect` will redirect any HTTP requests to HTTPS.
* `None` will mean a route for HTTP will _not_ be created, and no redirect.

### `routes.autogenerate.prefixes`

This allows you to define an array of prefixes to be prepended to the autogenerated routes of each environment. This is useful for things like language prefix domains, or a multi-domain site using the Drupal `domain` module.

NOTE: This is only available for projects which deploy to a Kubernetes cluster.

```
routes:
  autogenerate:
    prefixes:
    - www
    - de
    - fr
    - it
```

## Environments

Environment names match your deployed branches or pull requests. This allows for each environment to have a different config. In our example it will apply to the `master` and `staging` environment.

#### `environments.[name].monitoring_urls`

!!!danger
    This feature will be removed in an upcoming release of Lagoon. Please use the newer [`monitoring-path` method](lagoon_yml.md#monitoring-a-specific-path) on your specific route.

At the end of a deploy, Lagoon will check this field for any URLs which you have specified to add to the API for the purpose of monitoring. The default value for this field is the first route for a project. It is useful for adding specific paths of a project to the API, for consumption by a monitoring service.


#### `environments.[name].routes`

In the route section, we identify the domain names to which the environment will respond. It is typical to only have an environment with routes specified for your production environment. All environments receive a generated route, but sometimes there is a need for a non-production environment to have its own domain name. You can specify it here, and then add that domain with your DNS provider as a CNAME to the generated route name \(these routes publish in deploy messages\).

The first element after the environment is the target service, `Nginx` in our example. This is how we identify which service incoming requests will be sent to.

The simplest route is the `example.com` example in our sample `.lagoon.yml` above - you can see it has no additional configuration. This will assume that you want a Let's Encrypt certificate for your route and no redirect from HTTPS to HTTP.

In the `"www.example.com"` example repeated below, we see two more options \(also notice the `:` at the end of the route and that the route is wrapped in `"`, that's important!\):

#### SSL Configuration - `tls-acme`

* `tls-acme: 'true'` tells Lagoon to issue a Let's Encrypt certificate for that route. This is the default. If you don't want a Let's Encrypt, set this to `tls-acme: 'false'`
* `insecure` can be set to `None`, `Allow` or `Redirect`.
  * `Allow` simply sets up both routes for HTTP and HTTPS \(this is the default\).
  * `Redirect` will redirect any HTTP requests to HTTPS.
  * `None` will mean a route for HTTP will _not_ be created, and no redirect will take place.
* `hsts` can be set to a value of `max-age=31536000;includeSubDomains;preload`. Ensure there are no spaces and no other parameters included. Only `max-age` parameter is required. The required `max-age` parameter indicates the length of time, in seconds, the HSTS policy is in effect for.

!!!hint
    If you plan to switch from a SSL certificate signed by a Certificate Authority \(CA\) to a Let's Encrypt certificate, it's best get in touch with your Lagoon administrator to oversee the transition. There are [known issues](https://github.com/tnozicka/openshift-acme/issues/68) during the transition. The workaround would be manually removing the CA certificate and then triggering the Let's Encrypt process.


```
     - "www.example.com":
            tls-acme: 'true'
            insecure: Redirect
            hsts: max-age=31536000
```

#### Monitoring a specific path
When [UptimeRobot](https://uptimerobot.com/) is configured for your cluster (OpenShift or Kubernetes), Lagoon will inject annotations to each route/ingress for use by the `stakater/IngressControllerMonitor`. The default action is to monitor the homepage of the route. If you have a specific route to be monitored, this can be overriden by adding a `monitoring-path` to your route specification. A common use is to set up a path for monitoring which bypasses caching to give a more real-time monitoring of your site.

```
     - "www.example.com":
            monitoring-path: "/bypass-cache"
```

#### Ingress annotations (Redirects)

!!!hint
    Route/Ingress annotations are only supported by projects that deploy into clusters that run nginx-ingress controllers! Check with your Lagoon administrator if this is supported.


* `annotations` can be a yaml map of [annotations supported by the nginx-ingress controller](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/), this is specifically usefull for easy redirects:


In this example any requests to `example.ch` will be redirected to `https://www.example.ch` with keeping folders or query parameters intact (`example.com/folder?query` -> `https://www.example.ch/folder?query`)

```
        - "example.ch":
            annotations:
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/permanent-redirect: https://www.example.ch$request_uri
        - www.example.ch
```

You can of course also redirect to any other URL not hosted on Lagoon, this will direct requests to `example.de` to `https://www.google.com`

```
        - "example.de":
            annotations:
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/permanent-redirect: https://www.google.com
```

#### `environments.[name].types`

The Lagoon build process checks the `lagoon.type` label from the `docker-compose.yml` file in order to learn what type of service should be deployed  \(read more about them in the [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md)\).

Sometimes you might want to override the **type** just for a single environment, and not for all of them. For example, if you want a standalone MariaDB database (instead of letting the Service Broker/operator provision a shared one) for your non-production environment called `develop`:

`service-name: service-type`

* `service-name` is the name of the service from `docker-compose.yml` you would like to override.
* `service-type` the type of the service you would like to use in your override.

Example:

```
environments:
  develop:
    types:
      mariadb: mariadb-single
```


#### `environments.[name].templates`

The Lagoon build process checks the `lagoon.template` label from the `docker-compose.yml` file in order to check if the service needs a custom template file \(read more about them in the [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md)\).

Sometimes you might want to override the **template** just for a single environment, and not for all of them:

`service-name: template-file`

* `service-name` is the name of the service from `docker-compose.yml` you would like to override.
* `template-file` is the path and name of the template to use for this service in this environment.

Example:

```
environments:
  master:
    templates:
      mariadb: mariadb.master.deployment.yml
```


#### `environments.[name].rollouts`

The Lagoon build process checks the `lagoon.rollout` label from the `docker-compose.yml` file in order to check if the service needs a special rollout type \(read more about them in the [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md)\).

Sometimes you might want to override the **rollout type** just for a single environment, especially if you also overwrote the template type for the environment:

`service-name: rollout-type`

* `service-name` is the name of the service from `docker-compose.yml` you would like to override.
* `rollout-type` is the type of rollout. See [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md#custom-rollout-monitor-types)\) for possible values.

Example:

```
environments:
  master:
    rollouts:
      mariadb: statefulset
```

### `environments.[name].autogenerateRoutes`

This allows for any environments to get autogenerated routes when route autogeneration is disabled.

```
routes:
  autogenerate:
    enabled: false
environments:
  develop:
    autogenerateRoutes: true
```

#### Cron jobs - `environments.[name].cronjobs`

As most of the time it is not desirable to run the same cron jobs across all environments, you must explicitly define which jobs you want to run for each environment.

* `name:`
  * Just a friendly name for identifying what the cron job will do.
* `schedule:`
  * The schedule for executing the cron job. This follows the standard convention of cron. If you're not sure about the syntax, [Crontab Generator](https://crontab-generator.org/) can help.
  * You can specify `M` for the minute, and your cron job will run once per hour at a random minute \(the same minute each hour\), or `M/15` to run it every 15 mins, but with a random offset from the hour \(like `6,21,36,51`\).
  * You can specify `H` for the hour, and your cron job will run once per day at a random hour \(the same hour every day\), or `H(2-4)` to run it once per day within the hours of 2-4.
* `command:`
  * The command to execute. Like the tasks, this executes in the WORKDIR of the service. For Lagoon images, this is `/app`.
* `service:`
  * Which service of your project to run the command in. For most projects, this is the `CLI` service.

## Polysite

In Lagoon, the same Git repository can be added to multiple projects, creating what is called a Polysite. This allows you to run the same codebase, but allow for different, isolated, databases and persistent files. In `.lagoon.yml` , we currently only support specifying custom routes for a polysite project. The key difference from a standard project is that the `environments` becomes the second-level element, and the project name the top level.

Example:

```
example-project-name:
  environments:
    master:
      routes:
        - nginx:
          - example.com
```

## Specials

#### `api`

!!!hint
    If you run directly on amazee.io you will not need this key set.


With the key `api` you can define another URL that should be used by `lagu` and `drush` to connect to the Lagoon GraphQL `api`. This needs to be a full URL with a scheme, like: `http://localhost:3000` This usually does not need to be changed, but there might be situations where your Lagoon administrator tells you to do so.

#### `ssh`

!!!hint
    If you run directly on amazee.io you will not need this key set.

With the key `ssh` you can define another SSH endpoint that should be used by `lagu` and `drush` to connect to the Lagoon remote shell service. This needs to be a hostname and a port separated by a colon, like: `localhost:2020` This usually does not need to be changed, but there might be situations where your Lagoon administrator tells you to do so.

#### `additional-yaml`

The `additional-yaml` has some super powers. Basically, it allows you to define any arbitrary YAML configuration file to be inserted before the build step \(it still needs to be valid Kubernetes/Openshift YAML , though☺\).

Example:

```
additional-yaml:
  secrets:
    path: .lagoon.secrets.yml
    command: create
    ignore_error: true

  logs-db-secrets:
    path: .lagoon.logs-db-secrets.yml
    command: create
    ignore_error: true
```

Each definition is keyed by a unique name \(`secrets` and `logs-db-secrets` in the example above\), and takes these keys:

* `path` - the path to the YAML file.
* `command` - can either be `create` or `apply`, depending on if you want to run `kubectl create -f [yamlfile]` or `kubectl apply -f [yamlfile].`
* `ignore_error` - either `true` or `false` \(default\).  This allows you to instruct the Lagoon build script to ignore any errors that might be returned during running the command. \(This can be useful to handle the case where you want to run `create` during every build, so that new configurations are created, but don't fail if they already exist\).

#### `container-registries`

The `container-registries` block allows you to define your own private container registries to pull custom or private images. To use a private container registry, you will need a `username`, `password`, and optionally the `url` for your registry. If you don't specify a `url` in your YAML, it will default to using Docker Hub.

There are 2 ways to define the password used for your registry user.

* Create an environment variable in the Lagoon API \(see more on [Environment Variables](environment_variables.md)\). The name of the variable you create can then be set as the password:

```
container-registries:
  my-custom-registry:
    username: myownregistryuser
    password: MY_OWN_REGISTRY_PASSWORD
    url: my.own.registry.com
```

* Define it directly in the `.lagoon.yml` file in plain text:

```
container-registries:
  docker-hub:
    username: dockerhubuser
    password: MySecretPassword
```

**Consuming a custom or private container registry image**

To consume a custom or private container registry image, you need to update the service inside your `docker-compose.yml` file to use a build context instead of defining an image:

```
services:
  mariadb:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile.mariadb
```

Once the `docker-compose.yml` file has been updated to use a build, you need to create the `Dockerfile.<service>` and then set your private image as the `FROM <repo>/<name>:<tag>`

```text
FROM dockerhubuser/my-private-database:tag
```

Commit message:

Adding docs for production-backup-retention key in .lagoon.yml

docs/using_lagoon/lagoon_yml.md, after:

# .lagoon.yml

The `.lagoon.yml` file is the central file to set up your project. It contains configuration in order to do the following:

* [Define routes for accessing your sites](#routes).
* [Define pre-rollout tasks](#pre-rollout-tasks-pre_rolloutirun).
* [Define post-rollout tasks](#post-rollout-tasks-post_rolloutirun).
* [Set up SSL certificates](#ssl-configuration-tls-acme).
* [Add cron jobs for environments](#cron-jobs-environmentsnamecronjobs)

The `.lagoon.yml` file must be placed at the root of your Git repository.

## Example `.lagoon.yml`

This is an example `.lagoon.yml` which showcases all settings that are possible. You will need to adapt it to your needs.


```
docker-compose-yaml: docker-compose.yml

environment_variables:
  git_sha: 'true'

tasks:
  pre-rollout:
    - run:
        name: drush sql-dump
        command: mkdir -p /app/web/sites/default/files/private/ && drush sql-dump --ordered-dump --gzip --result-file=/app/web/sites/default/files/private/pre-deploy-dump.sql.gz
        service: cli
  post-rollout:
    - run:
        name: drush cim
        command: drush -y cim
        service: cli
        shell: bash
    - run:
        name: drush cr
        command: drush -y cr
        service: cli

routes:
  insecure: Redirect

production-backup-retention:
  monthly: 1
  weekly: 4
  daily: 7

environments:
  master:
    monitoring_urls:
      - "https://www.example.com"
      - "https://www.example.com/special_page"
    routes:
      - nginx:
        - example.com
        - example.net
        - "www.example.com":
            tls-acme: 'true'
            insecure: Redirect
            hsts: max-age=31536000
        - "example.ch":
            annotations:
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/permanent-redirect: https://www.example.ch$request_uri
        - www.example.ch
    types:
      mariadb: mariadb
    templates:
      mariadb: mariadb.master.deployment.yml
    rollouts:
      mariadb: statefulset
    cronjobs:
     - name: drush cron
       schedule: "H * * * *" # This will run the cron once per hour.
       command: drush cron
       service: cli
  staging:
    cronjobs:
     - name: drush cron
       schedule: "H * * * *" # This will run the cron once per hour.
       command: drush cron
       service: cli
```


## General Settings

### `docker-compose-yaml`

Tells the build script which docker-compose YAML file should be used, in order to learn which services and containers should be deployed. This defaults to `docker-compose.yml`, but could be used for a specific Lagoon docker-compose YAML file if you need something like that.

### `environment_variables.git_sha`

This setting allows you to enable injecting the deployed Git SHA into your project as an environment variable. By default this is disabled. Setting the value to`true`  sets the SHA as the environment variable `LAGOON_GIT_SHA`.

## Tasks

There are different type of tasks you can define, and they differ when exactly they are executed in a build flow:

### Pre-Rollout Tasks - `pre_rollout.[i].run`

The tasks defined as `pre_rollout` tasks will run against your project _after_ the new images have been built successfully, and _before_ the project gets altered in any way. This feature enables you, for example, to create a database dump before the rollout is running. This will make it easier to roll back in case of an issue with the rollout.

### Post-Rollout Tasks - `post_rollout.[i].run`

Here you can specify tasks which need to run against your project, _after_:

* All images have been successfully built.
* All containers are updated with the new images.
* All containers are running have passed their readiness checks.

Common uses for post-rollout tasks include running `drush updb`, `drush cim`, or clearing  various caches.

* `name`
  * The name is an arbitrary label for making it easier to identify each task in the logs.
* `command`
  * Here you specify what command should run. These are run in the WORKDIR of each container, for Lagoon images this is `/app`, keep this in mind if you need to `cd` into a specific location to run your task.
* `service`
  * The service which to run the task in. If following our drupal-example, this will be the CLI container, as it has all your site code, files, and a connection to the database. Typically you do not need to change this.
* `shell`
  * Which shell should be used to run the task in. By default `sh` is used, but if the container also has other shells \(like `bash`, you can define it here\). This is useful if you want to run some small if/else bash scripts within the post-rollouts. \(see the example above how to write a script with multiple lines\).

Note: If you would like to temporarily disable pre/post-rollout tasks during a deployment, you can set either of the following environment variables in the API at the project or environment level \(see how on [Environment Variables](environment_variables.md)\).

* `LAGOON_PREROLLOUT_DISABLED=true`
* `LAGOON_POSTROLLOUT_DISABLED=true`

## Backup Retention

### `production-backup-retention.monthly`

Specify the number of monthly backups our system should retain for your project's production environment(s). The default is `1` if this value is not specified.

### `production-backup-retention.weekly`

Specify the number of weekly backups our system should retain for your project's production environment(s). The default is `4` if this value is not specified.

### `production-backup-retention.daily`

Specify the number of daily backups our system should retain for your project's production environment(s). The default is `7` if this value is not specified.

## Routes

### `routes.autogenerate.enabled`

This allows for the disabling of the automatically created routes \(NOT the custom routes per environment, see below for them\) all together.

### `routes.autogenerate.allowPullrequests`

This allows pull request to get autogenerated routes when route autogeneration is disabled.

```
routes:
  autogenerate:
    enabled: false
    allowPullrequests: true
```

### `routes.autogenerate.insecure`

This allows you to define the behavior of the automatic creates routes \(NOT the custom routes per environment, see below for more\). The following options are allowed:

* `Allow` simply sets up routes for both HTTP and HTTPS \(this is the default\).
* `Redirect` will redirect any HTTP requests to HTTPS.
* `None` will mean a route for HTTP will _not_ be created, and no redirect.

### `routes.autogenerate.prefixes`

This allows you to define an array of prefixes to be prepended to the autogenerated routes of each environment. This is useful for things like language prefix domains, or a multi-domain site using the Drupal `domain` module.

NOTE: This is only available for projects which deploy to a Kubernetes cluster.

```
routes:
  autogenerate:
    prefixes:
    - www
    - de
    - fr
    - it
```

## Environments

Environment names match your deployed branches or pull requests. This allows for each environment to have a different config. In our example it will apply to the `master` and `staging` environment.

#### `environments.[name].monitoring_urls`

!!!danger
    This feature will be removed in an upcoming release of Lagoon. Please use the newer [`monitoring-path` method](lagoon_yml.md#monitoring-a-specific-path) on your specific route.

At the end of a deploy, Lagoon will check this field for any URLs which you have specified to add to the API for the purpose of monitoring. The default value for this field is the first route for a project. It is useful for adding specific paths of a project to the API, for consumption by a monitoring service.


#### `environments.[name].routes`

In the route section, we identify the domain names to which the environment will respond. It is typical to only have an environment with routes specified for your production environment. All environments receive a generated route, but sometimes there is a need for a non-production environment to have its own domain name. You can specify it here, and then add that domain with your DNS provider as a CNAME to the generated route name \(these routes publish in deploy messages\).

The first element after the environment is the target service, `Nginx` in our example. This is how we identify which service incoming requests will be sent to.

The simplest route is the `example.com` example in our sample `.lagoon.yml` above - you can see it has no additional configuration. This will assume that you want a Let's Encrypt certificate for your route and no redirect from HTTPS to HTTP.

In the `"www.example.com"` example repeated below, we see two more options \(also notice the `:` at the end of the route and that the route is wrapped in `"`, that's important!\):

#### SSL Configuration - `tls-acme`

* `tls-acme: 'true'` tells Lagoon to issue a Let's Encrypt certificate for that route. This is the default. If you don't want a Let's Encrypt, set this to `tls-acme: 'false'`
* `insecure` can be set to `None`, `Allow` or `Redirect`.
  * `Allow` simply sets up both routes for HTTP and HTTPS \(this is the default\).
  * `Redirect` will redirect any HTTP requests to HTTPS.
  * `None` will mean a route for HTTP will _not_ be created, and no redirect will take place.
* `hsts` can be set to a value of `max-age=31536000;includeSubDomains;preload`. Ensure there are no spaces and no other parameters included. Only `max-age` parameter is required. The required `max-age` parameter indicates the length of time, in seconds, the HSTS policy is in effect for.

!!!hint
    If you plan to switch from a SSL certificate signed by a Certificate Authority \(CA\) to a Let's Encrypt certificate, it's best get in touch with your Lagoon administrator to oversee the transition. There are [known issues](https://github.com/tnozicka/openshift-acme/issues/68) during the transition. The workaround would be manually removing the CA certificate and then triggering the Let's Encrypt process.


```
     - "www.example.com":
            tls-acme: 'true'
            insecure: Redirect
            hsts: max-age=31536000
```

#### Monitoring a specific path
When [UptimeRobot](https://uptimerobot.com/) is configured for your cluster (OpenShift or Kubernetes), Lagoon will inject annotations to each route/ingress for use by the `stakater/IngressControllerMonitor`. The default action is to monitor the homepage of the route. If you have a specific route to be monitored, this can be overriden by adding a `monitoring-path` to your route specification. A common use is to set up a path for monitoring which bypasses caching to give a more real-time monitoring of your site.

```
     - "www.example.com":
            monitoring-path: "/bypass-cache"
```

#### Ingress annotations (Redirects)

!!!hint
    Route/Ingress annotations are only supported by projects that deploy into clusters that run nginx-ingress controllers! Check with your Lagoon administrator if this is supported.


* `annotations` can be a yaml map of [annotations supported by the nginx-ingress controller](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/), this is specifically usefull for easy redirects:


In this example any requests to `example.ch` will be redirected to `https://www.example.ch` with keeping folders or query parameters intact (`example.com/folder?query` -> `https://www.example.ch/folder?query`)

```
        - "example.ch":
            annotations:
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/permanent-redirect: https://www.example.ch$request_uri
        - www.example.ch
```

You can of course also redirect to any other URL not hosted on Lagoon, this will direct requests to `example.de` to `https://www.google.com`

```
        - "example.de":
            annotations:
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/permanent-redirect: https://www.google.com
```

#### `environments.[name].types`

The Lagoon build process checks the `lagoon.type` label from the `docker-compose.yml` file in order to learn what type of service should be deployed  \(read more about them in the [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md)\).

Sometimes you might want to override the **type** just for a single environment, and not for all of them. For example, if you want a standalone MariaDB database (instead of letting the Service Broker/operator provision a shared one) for your non-production environment called `develop`:

`service-name: service-type`

* `service-name` is the name of the service from `docker-compose.yml` you would like to override.
* `service-type` the type of the service you would like to use in your override.

Example:

```
environments:
  develop:
    types:
      mariadb: mariadb-single
```


#### `environments.[name].templates`

The Lagoon build process checks the `lagoon.template` label from the `docker-compose.yml` file in order to check if the service needs a custom template file \(read more about them in the [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md)\).

Sometimes you might want to override the **template** just for a single environment, and not for all of them:

`service-name: template-file`

* `service-name` is the name of the service from `docker-compose.yml` you would like to override.
* `template-file` is the path and name of the template to use for this service in this environment.

Example:

```
environments:
  master:
    templates:
      mariadb: mariadb.master.deployment.yml
```


#### `environments.[name].rollouts`

The Lagoon build process checks the `lagoon.rollout` label from the `docker-compose.yml` file in order to check if the service needs a special rollout type \(read more about them in the [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md)\).

Sometimes you might want to override the **rollout type** just for a single environment, especially if you also overwrote the template type for the environment:

`service-name: rollout-type`

* `service-name` is the name of the service from `docker-compose.yml` you would like to override.
* `rollout-type` is the type of rollout. See [documentation of `docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose_yml.md#custom-rollout-monitor-types)\) for possible values.

Example:

```
environments:
  master:
    rollouts:
      mariadb: statefulset
```

### `environments.[name].autogenerateRoutes`

This allows for any environments to get autogenerated routes when route autogeneration is disabled.

```
routes:
  autogenerate:
    enabled: false
environments:
  develop:
    autogenerateRoutes: true
```

#### Cron jobs - `environments.[name].cronjobs`

As most of the time it is not desirable to run the same cron jobs across all environments, you must explicitly define which jobs you want to run for each environment.

* `name:`
  * Just a friendly name for identifying what the cron job will do.
* `schedule:`
  * The schedule for executing the cron job. This follows the standard convention of cron. If you're not sure about the syntax, [Crontab Generator](https://crontab-generator.org/) can help.
  * You can specify `M` for the minute, and your cron job will run once per hour at a random minute \(the same minute each hour\), or `M/15` to run it every 15 mins, but with a random offset from the hour \(like `6,21,36,51`\).
  * You can specify `H` for the hour, and your cron job will run once per day at a random hour \(the same hour every day\), or `H(2-4)` to run it once per day within the hours of 2-4.
* `command:`
  * The command to execute. Like the tasks, this executes in the WORKDIR of the service. For Lagoon images, this is `/app`.
* `service:`
  * Which service of your project to run the command in. For most projects, this is the `CLI` service.

## Polysite

In Lagoon, the same Git repository can be added to multiple projects, creating what is called a Polysite. This allows you to run the same codebase, but allow for different, isolated, databases and persistent files. In `.lagoon.yml` , we currently only support specifying custom routes for a polysite project. The key difference from a standard project is that the `environments` becomes the second-level element, and the project name the top level.

Example:

```
example-project-name:
  environments:
    master:
      routes:
        - nginx:
          - example.com
```

## Specials

#### `api`

!!!hint
    If you run directly on amazee.io you will not need this key set.


With the key `api` you can define another URL that should be used by `lagu` and `drush` to connect to the Lagoon GraphQL `api`. This needs to be a full URL with a scheme, like: `http://localhost:3000` This usually does not need to be changed, but there might be situations where your Lagoon administrator tells you to do so.

#### `ssh`

!!!hint
    If you run directly on amazee.io you will not need this key set.

With the key `ssh` you can define another SSH endpoint that should be used by `lagu` and `drush` to connect to the Lagoon remote shell service. This needs to be a hostname and a port separated by a colon, like: `localhost:2020` This usually does not need to be changed, but there might be situations where your Lagoon administrator tells you to do so.

#### `additional-yaml`

The `additional-yaml` has some super powers. Basically, it allows you to define any arbitrary YAML configuration file to be inserted before the build step \(it still needs to be valid Kubernetes/Openshift YAML , though☺\).

Example:

```
additional-yaml:
  secrets:
    path: .lagoon.secrets.yml
    command: create
    ignore_error: true

  logs-db-secrets:
    path: .lagoon.logs-db-secrets.yml
    command: create
    ignore_error: true
```

Each definition is keyed by a unique name \(`secrets` and `logs-db-secrets` in the example above\), and takes these keys:

* `path` - the path to the YAML file.
* `command` - can either be `create` or `apply`, depending on if you want to run `kubectl create -f [yamlfile]` or `kubectl apply -f [yamlfile].`
* `ignore_error` - either `true` or `false` \(default\).  This allows you to instruct the Lagoon build script to ignore any errors that might be returned during running the command. \(This can be useful to handle the case where you want to run `create` during every build, so that new configurations are created, but don't fail if they already exist\).

#### `container-registries`

The `container-registries` block allows you to define your own private container registries to pull custom or private images. To use a private container registry, you will need a `username`, `password`, and optionally the `url` for your registry. If you don't specify a `url` in your YAML, it will default to using Docker Hub.

There are 2 ways to define the password used for your registry user.

* Create an environment variable in the Lagoon API \(see more on [Environment Variables](environment_variables.md)\). The name of the variable you create can then be set as the password:

```
container-registries:
  my-custom-registry:
    username: myownregistryuser
    password: MY_OWN_REGISTRY_PASSWORD
    url: my.own.registry.com
```

* Define it directly in the `.lagoon.yml` file in plain text:

```
container-registries:
  docker-hub:
    username: dockerhubuser
    password: MySecretPassword
```

**Consuming a custom or private container registry image**

To consume a custom or private container registry image, you need to update the service inside your `docker-compose.yml` file to use a build context instead of defining an image:

```
services:
  mariadb:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile.mariadb
```

Once the `docker-compose.yml` file has been updated to use a build, you need to create the `Dockerfile.<service>` and then set your private image as the `FROM <repo>/<name>:<tag>`

```text
FROM dockerhubuser/my-private-database:tag
```
