docs/concepts-advanced/service-types.md, before:

# Service Types

The below lists all service types that can be defined via `lagoon.type` within a [`docker-compose.yml` file](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md).

!!! Warning
    Once a `lagoon.type` is defined and the environment is deployed, changing it to a different type is not supported and could result in a broken environment.

## Additional Volumes

Some service types allow for additional volumes to be added, for more information on the `lagoon.volumes.X.path` label, please see [Additional Volumes](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md/#additional-volumes)

If you're provisioning a new project, we recommend avoiding the usage of `-persistent` service types, and use additional volumes as required for any persistent data.

## Additional Service Ports

Most services provide a default port, in cases where you want to use the services already defined in your `docker-compose.yml` file, you can configure a service to use those ports instead.

To use this feature, you set the `lagoon.service.usecomposeports: true` label on the service in your `docker-compose.yml` file. For more information on how to use this feature, see [Additional Service Ports](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md/#additional-service-ports)

## `basic`

Basic container, good to use for most applications that don't have an existing template. No persistent storage. The port can be changed using a label. If an [autogenerated route](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md#auto-generated-routes) is not required (e.g. for an internal-facing service, set `lagoon.autogeneratedroute: false` in the docker-compose.yml)

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | No | `lagoon.service.port`, `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `basic-persistent`

Like `basic`. Will also generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | Yes |  `lagoon.service.port`, `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size`,  `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `basic-single`

Like `basic-persistent`. This will also generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

Where this differs from `basic-persistent` is that the volume is a `ReadWriteOnce` volume type. The downsides to this service type are that it can't be scaled.

This service type does not support additional volumes.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | Yes |  `lagoon.service.port`, `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size` |


## `cli`

Use for any kind of CLI container \(like PHP, Node.js, etc\). Automatically gets the customer SSH private key that is mounted in `/var/run/secrets/lagoon/sshkey/ssh-privatekey`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | No | `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `cli-persistent`

Like `cli`, expects `lagoon.persistent.name` to be given the name of a service that has persistent storage, which will be mounted under defined `lagoon.persistent` label. Does NOT generate its own persistent storage, only used to mount another service's persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `elasticsearch`

Elasticsearch container, will auto-generate persistent storage under `/usr/share/elasticsearch/data`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP on `localhost:9200/_cluster/health?local=true` | 9200 | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `mariadb`

A meta-service which will tell Lagoon to automatically decide between `mariadb-single` and `mariadb-dbaas`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `mariadb-single`

MariaDB container. Creates cron job for backups running every 24h executing `/lagoon/mysql-backup.sh 127.0.0.1`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3306` | `3306` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `mariadb-dbaas`

Uses a shared MariaDB server via the DBaaS Operator.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Not Needed | `3306` | No | - | - |

## `mongo`

A meta-service which will tell Lagoon to automatically decide between `mongo-single` and `mongo-dbaas`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `mongo-single`

MongoDB container, will generate persistent storage of min 1GB mounted at `/data/db`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `27017` | `27017` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `mongo-dbaas`

Uses a shared MongoDB server via the DBaaS Operator.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Not Needed | `27017` | No | - | - |

## `nginx`

NGINX container. No persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `localhost:50000/nginx_status` | `8080` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `nginx-php`

Like `nginx`, but additionally a `php` container.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| NGINX: `localhost:50000/nginx_status`, PHP: `/usr/sbin/check_fcgi` | `8080` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `nginx-php-persistent`

Like `nginx-php.` Will generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| NGINX: `localhost:50000/nginx_status`, PHP: `/usr/sbin/check_fcgi` | http on `8080` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `node`

Node.js container. No persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `node-persistent`

Like `node`. Will generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `none`

Instructs Lagoon to completely ignore this service.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `opensearch`

OpenSearch container, will auto-generate persistent storage under `/usr/share/opensearch/data`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP on `localhost:9200/_cluster/health?local=true` | 9200 | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `postgres`

A meta-service which will tell Lagoon to automatically decide between `postgres-single` and `postgres-dbaas`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `postgres-single`

Postgres container. Creates cron job for backups running every 24h executing `/lagoon/postgres-backup.sh localhost`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `5432` | `5432` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `postgres-dbaas`

Uses a shared PostgreSQL server via the DBaaS Operator.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Not Needed | `5432` | No | - | - |

## `python`

Python container. No persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP connection on `8800` | `8800` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `python-persistent`

Python container. With persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP connection on `8800` | `8800` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `redis`

Redis container.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `6379` | `6379` | No | No | - |

## `redis-persistent`

Redis container with auto-generated persistent storage mounted under `/data`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `6379` | `6379` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `solr`

Solr container with auto-generated persistent storage mounted under `/var/solr`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `8983` | `8983` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `varnish`

Varnish container.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP request `localhost:8080/varnish_status` | `8080` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute` |

## `varnish-persistent`

Varnish container with auto-generated persistent storage mounted under `/var/cache/varnish`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP request `localhost:8080/varnish_status` | `8080` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `worker`

Use for any kind of worker container \(like queue workers, etc.\) where there is no exposed service port.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | No | `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `worker-persistent`

Like `worker`, expects `lagoon.persistent.name` to be given the name of a service that has persistent storage, which will be mounted under defined `lagoon.persistent` label. Does NOT generate its own persistent storage, only used to mount another service's persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

Commit message:

docs: add note about order of nginx-php service types

docs/concepts-advanced/service-types.md, after:

# Service Types

The below lists all service types that can be defined via `lagoon.type` within a [`docker-compose.yml` file](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md).

!!! Warning
    Once a `lagoon.type` is defined and the environment is deployed, changing it to a different type is not supported and could result in a broken environment.

## Additional Volumes

Some service types allow for additional volumes to be added, for more information on the `lagoon.volumes.X.path` label, please see [Additional Volumes](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md/#additional-volumes)

If you're provisioning a new project, we recommend avoiding the usage of `-persistent` service types, and use additional volumes as required for any persistent data.

## Additional Service Ports

Most services provide a default port, in cases where you want to use the services already defined in your `docker-compose.yml` file, you can configure a service to use those ports instead.

To use this feature, you set the `lagoon.service.usecomposeports: true` label on the service in your `docker-compose.yml` file. For more information on how to use this feature, see [Additional Service Ports](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md/#additional-service-ports)

## `basic`

Basic container, good to use for most applications that don't have an existing template. No persistent storage. The port can be changed using a label. If an [autogenerated route](../concepts-basics/docker-compose-yml.md#auto-generated-routes) is not required (e.g. for an internal-facing service, set `lagoon.autogeneratedroute: false` in the docker-compose.yml)

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | No | `lagoon.service.port`, `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `basic-persistent`

Like `basic`. Will also generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | Yes |  `lagoon.service.port`, `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size`,  `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `basic-single`

Like `basic-persistent`. This will also generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

Where this differs from `basic-persistent` is that the volume is a `ReadWriteOnce` volume type. The downsides to this service type are that it can't be scaled.

This service type does not support additional volumes.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | Yes |  `lagoon.service.port`, `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size` |


## `cli`

Use for any kind of CLI container \(like PHP, Node.js, etc\). Automatically gets the customer SSH private key that is mounted in `/var/run/secrets/lagoon/sshkey/ssh-privatekey`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | No | `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `cli-persistent`

Like `cli`, expects `lagoon.persistent.name` to be given the name of a service that has persistent storage, which will be mounted under defined `lagoon.persistent` label. Does NOT generate its own persistent storage, only used to mount another service's persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `elasticsearch`

Elasticsearch container, will auto-generate persistent storage under `/usr/share/elasticsearch/data`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP on `localhost:9200/_cluster/health?local=true` | 9200 | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `mariadb`

A meta-service which will tell Lagoon to automatically decide between `mariadb-single` and `mariadb-dbaas`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `mariadb-single`

MariaDB container. Creates cron job for backups running every 24h executing `/lagoon/mysql-backup.sh 127.0.0.1`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3306` | `3306` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `mariadb-dbaas`

Uses a shared MariaDB server via the DBaaS Operator.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Not Needed | `3306` | No | - | - |

## `mongo`

A meta-service which will tell Lagoon to automatically decide between `mongo-single` and `mongo-dbaas`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `mongo-single`

MongoDB container, will generate persistent storage of min 1GB mounted at `/data/db`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `27017` | `27017` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `mongo-dbaas`

Uses a shared MongoDB server via the DBaaS Operator.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Not Needed | `27017` | No | - | - |

## `nginx`

NGINX container. No persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `localhost:50000/nginx_status` | `8080` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `nginx-php`

Like `nginx`, but additionally a `php` container.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| NGINX: `localhost:50000/nginx_status`, PHP: `/usr/sbin/check_fcgi` | `8080` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

!!! note
    When defining an nginx-php, or nginx-php-persistent service type, the order that the services are defined matters.
    The php service should be defined *after* the nginx service

## `nginx-php-persistent`

Like `nginx-php.` Will generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| NGINX: `localhost:50000/nginx_status`, PHP: `/usr/sbin/check_fcgi` | http on `8080` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

!!! note
    When defining an nginx-php, or nginx-php-persistent service type, the order that the services are defined matters.
    The php service should be defined *after* the nginx service

## `node`

Node.js container. No persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `node-persistent`

Like `node`. Will generate persistent storage, defines mount location via `lagoon.persistent`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `3000` | `3000` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent.size`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `none`

Instructs Lagoon to completely ignore this service.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `opensearch`

OpenSearch container, will auto-generate persistent storage under `/usr/share/opensearch/data`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP on `localhost:9200/_cluster/health?local=true` | 9200 | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `postgres`

A meta-service which will tell Lagoon to automatically decide between `postgres-single` and `postgres-dbaas`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | - | - | - | - |

## `postgres-single`

Postgres container. Creates cron job for backups running every 24h executing `/lagoon/postgres-backup.sh localhost`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `5432` | `5432` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `postgres-dbaas`

Uses a shared PostgreSQL server via the DBaaS Operator.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Not Needed | `5432` | No | - | - |

## `python`

Python container. No persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP connection on `8800` | `8800` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `python-persistent`

Python container. With persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP connection on `8800` | `8800` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `redis`

Redis container.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `6379` | `6379` | No | No | - |

## `redis-persistent`

Redis container with auto-generated persistent storage mounted under `/data`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `6379` | `6379` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `solr`

Solr container with auto-generated persistent storage mounted under `/var/solr`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| TCP connection on `8983` | `8983` | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `varnish`

Varnish container.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP request `localhost:8080/varnish_status` | `8080` | Yes | No | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute` |

## `varnish-persistent`

Varnish container with auto-generated persistent storage mounted under `/var/cache/varnish`.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| HTTP request `localhost:8080/varnish_status` | `8080` | Yes | Yes | `lagoon.autogeneratedroute`, `lagoon.persistent.size` |

## `worker`

Use for any kind of worker container \(like queue workers, etc.\) where there is no exposed service port.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | No | `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |

## `worker-persistent`

Like `worker`, expects `lagoon.persistent.name` to be given the name of a service that has persistent storage, which will be mounted under defined `lagoon.persistent` label. Does NOT generate its own persistent storage, only used to mount another service's persistent storage.

| Healthcheck | Exposed Ports | Auto Generated Routes | Storage | Additional customization parameter |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| - | No | No | Yes | `lagoon.persistent.name`, `lagoon.persistent`, `lagoon.volumes.X.path` |
