docs/using-lagoon-advanced/environment-variables.md, before:

# Environment Variables

It is common to store API tokens or credentials for applications in environment variables.

Following best practices, those credentials are different per environment. We allow each environment to use a separate set of environment variables defined in environment variables or environment files.

As there can be environment variables defined in either the Dockerfile or during runtime \(via API environment variables\), we have a hierarchy of environment variables: environment variables defined in lower numbers are stronger.

1. Environment variables \(defined via Lagoon API\) - environment specific.
2. Environment variables \(defined via Lagoon API\) - project-wide.
3. Environment variables defined in Dockerfile \(`ENV` command\).
4. Environment variables defined in `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME` \(if the file exists and where `$BRANCHNAME` is the branch this Docker image has been built for\), use this for overwriting variables for only specific branches.
5. Environment variables defined in `.lagoon.env` \(if it exists\), use this for overwriting variables for all branches.
6. Environment variables defined in `.env`.
7. Environment variables defined in `.env.defaults`.

`.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME`, `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME`, `.env`, and `.env.defaults` are all sourced by the individual containers themselves as part of running their entrypoint scripts. They are not read by Lagoon, but by the containers themselves.

## Environment Variables \(Lagoon API\)

We suggest using the Lagoon API environment variable system for variables that you don't want to keep in your Git repo \(like secrets or API keys\), as they could be compromised by somebody having them on their local development environment or on the internet, etc.

The Lagoon API allows you to define project-wide or environment-specific variables. Additionally, they can be defined for a scope-only build-time or runtime. They are all created via the Lagoon GraphQL API. Read more on how to use the GraphQL API [in our GraphQL API](graphql.md) documentation.

### Runtime Environment Variables \(Lagoon API\)

Runtime environment variables are automatically made available in all containers, but they are only added or updated after an environment has been re-deployed.

This defines a project wide runtime variable \(available in all environments\) for the project with ID `463`:

```graphql
mutation addRuntimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:PROJECT,
      typeId:463,
      scope:RUNTIME,
      name:"MYVARIABLENAME",
      value:"MyVariableValue"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

This defines a environment ID `546` specific runtime variable \(available only in that specific environment\):

```graphql
mutation addRuntimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:ENVIRONMENT,
      typeId:546,
      scope:RUNTIME,
      name:"MYVARIABLENAME",
      value:"MyVariableValue"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

### Build-time Environment Variables \(Lagoon API\)

Build-time environment variables are only available during a build and need to be consumed in Dockerfiles via:

```graphql
ARG MYVARIABLENAME
```

This defines a project-wide build-time variable \(available in all environments\) for the project with ID `463`:

```graphql
mutation addBuildtimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:PROJECT,
      typeId:463,
      scope:BUILD,
      name:"MYVARIABLENAME",
      value:"MyVariableValue"}
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

This defines an environment ID `546`specific build-time variable \(available only in that specific environment\):

```graphql
mutation addBuildtimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(input:{type:ENVIRONMENT, typeId:546, scope:BUILD, name:"MYVARIABLENAME", value:"MyVariableValue"}) {
    id
  }
}
```

Container registry environment variables are only available during a build and are used when attempting to log in to a private registry. They are used to store the password for the user defined in [Specials » `container-registries`](../using-lagoon-the-basics/lagoon-yml.md#specials). They can be applied at the project or environment level.

This defines a project-wide container registry variable \(available in all environments\) for the project with ID `463`:

```graphql
mutation addContainerRegistryEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:PROJECT,
      typeId:463,
      scope:CONTAINER_REGISTRY,
      name:"MY_OWN_REGISTRY_PASSWORD",
      value:"MySecretPassword"})
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

This defines a environment id `546` specific container registry variable \(available only in that specific environment\):

```graphql
mutation addContainerRegistryEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:ENVIRONMENT,
      typeId:546,
      scope:CONTAINER_REGISTRY,
      name:"MY_OWN_REGISTRY_PASSWORD",
      value:"MySecretPassword"}
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

## Environment Files \(existing directly in the Git Repo\)

If you have environment variables that can safely be saved within a Git repository, we suggest adding them directly into the Git repository in an environment file. These variables will also be available within local development environments and are therefore more portable.

The syntax in the environment files is as following:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="myenvironment.env" %}
```bash
MYVARIABLENAME="MyVariableValue"
MVARIABLENUMBER=4242
DB_USER=$DB_USERNAME # Redefine DB_USER with the value of DB_USERNAME e.g. if your application expects another variable name for the Lagoon-provided variables.
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME`

If you want to define environment variables different per environment you can create a `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME` e.g. for the main branch `.lagoon.env.main`. This helps you keeping environment variables apart between environments.

### `.env` and `.env.defaults`

`.env` and `.env.defaults` will act as the default values for environment variables if none other is defined. For example, as default environment variables for pull request environments \(see [Workflows](workflows.md#pull-requests)\).

## Special Environment Variables

### `PHP_ERROR_REPORTING`

This variable, if set, will define the [logging](../logging/logging.md) level you would like PHP to use. If not supplied, it will be set dynamically based on whether this is a production or development environment.

On production environments, this value defaults to `E_ALL & ~E_DEPRECATED & ~E_STRICT & ~E_NOTICE`.

On development environments, this value defaults to `E_ALL & ~E_DEPRECATED & ~E_STRICT`.

### Custom Backup Settings

Lagoon can support custom backup locations and credentials for any project when all four of the following variables are set as `BUILD` type variables. Please note that any use of these variables means that all environment and db backups created and managed by Lagoon will be stored using these credentials, meaning that any interruption of these credentials' may lead to failed or inaccessible backups.

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_ENDPOINT`

Specify the S3 compatible endpoint where any Lagoon initiated backups should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `http://10.144.1.224:9000`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_BUCKET`

Specify the bucket name where any Lagoon initiated backups should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `example-restore-bucket`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_ACCESS_KEY`

Specify the access key Lagoon should use to access the custom backup bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `AAAAAAAAAAAA12345`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_SECRET_KEY`

Specify the secret key Lagoon should use to access the custom backup bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `12345AAAAAAAAAAAA`

### Custom Restore Location

Lagoon can support custom restore locations and credentials for any project when all four of the following variables are set as `BUILD` type variables. Please note that any use of these variables means that all environment and db backups restored by Lagoon will be stored using these credentials, meaning that any interruption of these credentials' access may lead to failed or inaccessible restored files.

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_ENDPOINT`

Specify the S3 compatible endpoint where any Lagoon initiated restores should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `http://10.144.1.224:9000`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_BUCKET`

Specify the bucket name where any Lagoon initiated restores should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `example-restore-bucket`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_ACCESS_KEY`

Specify the access key Lagoon should use to access the custom restore bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `AAAAAAAAAAAA12345`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_SECRET_KEY`

Specify the secret key Lagoon should use to access the custom restore bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `12345AAAAAAAAAAAA`

Commit message:

docs: add hint about where to put .env files
Make clear that `.env` and `.lagoon.env` files are loaded relative to `WORKDIR`.

docs/using-lagoon-advanced/environment-variables.md, after:

# Environment Variables

It is common to store API tokens or credentials for applications in environment variables.

Following best practices, those credentials are different per environment. We allow each environment to use a separate set of environment variables defined in environment variables or environment files.

As there can be environment variables defined in either the Dockerfile or during runtime \(via API environment variables\), we have a hierarchy of environment variables: environment variables defined in lower numbers are stronger.

1. Environment variables \(defined via Lagoon API\) - environment specific.
2. Environment variables \(defined via Lagoon API\) - project-wide.
3. Environment variables defined in Dockerfile \(`ENV` command\).
4. Environment variables defined in `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME` \(if the file exists and where `$BRANCHNAME` is the branch this Docker image has been built for\), use this for overwriting variables for only specific branches.
5. Environment variables defined in `.lagoon.env` \(if it exists\), use this for overwriting variables for all branches.
6. Environment variables defined in `.env`.
7. Environment variables defined in `.env.defaults`.

`.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME`, `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME`, `.env`, and `.env.defaults` are all sourced by the individual containers themselves as part of running their entrypoint scripts. They are not read by Lagoon, but by the containers `ENTRYPOINT` scripts, which look for them in the containers working directory. If environment variables don't appear as expected, check if your container has a `WORKDIR` setting that that points to somewhere else.

## Environment Variables \(Lagoon API\)

We suggest using the Lagoon API environment variable system for variables that you don't want to keep in your Git repo \(like secrets or API keys\), as they could be compromised by somebody having them on their local development environment or on the internet, etc.

The Lagoon API allows you to define project-wide or environment-specific variables. Additionally, they can be defined for a scope-only build-time or runtime. They are all created via the Lagoon GraphQL API. Read more on how to use the GraphQL API [in our GraphQL API](graphql.md) documentation.

### Runtime Environment Variables \(Lagoon API\)

Runtime environment variables are automatically made available in all containers, but they are only added or updated after an environment has been re-deployed.

This defines a project wide runtime variable \(available in all environments\) for the project with ID `463`:

```graphql
mutation addRuntimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:PROJECT,
      typeId:463,
      scope:RUNTIME,
      name:"MYVARIABLENAME",
      value:"MyVariableValue"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

This defines a environment ID `546` specific runtime variable \(available only in that specific environment\):

```graphql
mutation addRuntimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:ENVIRONMENT,
      typeId:546,
      scope:RUNTIME,
      name:"MYVARIABLENAME",
      value:"MyVariableValue"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

### Build-time Environment Variables \(Lagoon API\)

Build-time environment variables are only available during a build and need to be consumed in Dockerfiles via:

```graphql
ARG MYVARIABLENAME
```

This defines a project-wide build-time variable \(available in all environments\) for the project with ID `463`:

```graphql
mutation addBuildtimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:PROJECT,
      typeId:463,
      scope:BUILD,
      name:"MYVARIABLENAME",
      value:"MyVariableValue"}
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

This defines an environment ID `546`specific build-time variable \(available only in that specific environment\):

```graphql
mutation addBuildtimeEnv {
  addEnvVariable(input:{type:ENVIRONMENT, typeId:546, scope:BUILD, name:"MYVARIABLENAME", value:"MyVariableValue"}) {
    id
  }
}
```

Container registry environment variables are only available during a build and are used when attempting to log in to a private registry. They are used to store the password for the user defined in [Specials » `container-registries`](../using-lagoon-the-basics/lagoon-yml.md#specials). They can be applied at the project or environment level.

This defines a project-wide container registry variable \(available in all environments\) for the project with ID `463`:

```graphql
mutation addContainerRegistryEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:PROJECT,
      typeId:463,
      scope:CONTAINER_REGISTRY,
      name:"MY_OWN_REGISTRY_PASSWORD",
      value:"MySecretPassword"})
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

This defines a environment id `546` specific container registry variable \(available only in that specific environment\):

```graphql
mutation addContainerRegistryEnv {
  addEnvVariable(
    input:{
      type:ENVIRONMENT,
      typeId:546,
      scope:CONTAINER_REGISTRY,
      name:"MY_OWN_REGISTRY_PASSWORD",
      value:"MySecretPassword"}
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

## Environment Files \(existing directly in the Git Repo\)

If you have environment variables that can safely be saved within a Git repository, we suggest adding them directly into the Git repository in an environment file. These variables will also be available within local development environments and are therefore more portable.

The syntax in the environment files is as following:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="myenvironment.env" %}
```bash
MYVARIABLENAME="MyVariableValue"
MVARIABLENUMBER=4242
DB_USER=$DB_USERNAME # Redefine DB_USER with the value of DB_USERNAME e.g. if your application expects another variable name for the Lagoon-provided variables.
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME`

If you want to define environment variables different per environment you can create a `.lagoon.env.$BRANCHNAME` e.g. for the main branch `.lagoon.env.main`. This helps you keeping environment variables apart between environments.

### `.env` and `.env.defaults`

`.env` and `.env.defaults` will act as the default values for environment variables if none other is defined. For example, as default environment variables for pull request environments \(see [Workflows](workflows.md#pull-requests)\).

## Special Environment Variables

### `PHP_ERROR_REPORTING`

This variable, if set, will define the [logging](../logging/logging.md) level you would like PHP to use. If not supplied, it will be set dynamically based on whether this is a production or development environment.

On production environments, this value defaults to `E_ALL & ~E_DEPRECATED & ~E_STRICT & ~E_NOTICE`.

On development environments, this value defaults to `E_ALL & ~E_DEPRECATED & ~E_STRICT`.

### Custom Backup Settings

Lagoon can support custom backup locations and credentials for any project when all four of the following variables are set as `BUILD` type variables. Please note that any use of these variables means that all environment and db backups created and managed by Lagoon will be stored using these credentials, meaning that any interruption of these credentials' may lead to failed or inaccessible backups.

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_ENDPOINT`

Specify the S3 compatible endpoint where any Lagoon initiated backups should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `http://10.144.1.224:9000`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_BUCKET`

Specify the bucket name where any Lagoon initiated backups should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `example-restore-bucket`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_ACCESS_KEY`

Specify the access key Lagoon should use to access the custom backup bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `AAAAAAAAAAAA12345`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_BACKUP_SECRET_KEY`

Specify the secret key Lagoon should use to access the custom backup bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `12345AAAAAAAAAAAA`

### Custom Restore Location

Lagoon can support custom restore locations and credentials for any project when all four of the following variables are set as `BUILD` type variables. Please note that any use of these variables means that all environment and db backups restored by Lagoon will be stored using these credentials, meaning that any interruption of these credentials' access may lead to failed or inaccessible restored files.

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_ENDPOINT`

Specify the S3 compatible endpoint where any Lagoon initiated restores should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `http://10.144.1.224:9000`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_BUCKET`

Specify the bucket name where any Lagoon initiated restores should be stored.

An example custom setting would be: `example-restore-bucket`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_ACCESS_KEY`

Specify the access key Lagoon should use to access the custom restore bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `AAAAAAAAAAAA12345`

#### `LAGOON_BAAS_CUSTOM_RESTORE_SECRET_KEY`

Specify the secret key Lagoon should use to access the custom restore bucket.

An example custom setting would be: `12345AAAAAAAAAAAA`
