#### Release Links
* lagoon [v2.18.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon/releases/tag/v2.18.0)
* lagoon-ui [core-v2.18.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-ui/releases/tag/core-v2.18.0)
* lagoon-build-deploy [core-v2.18.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/build-deploy-tool/releases/tag/core-v2.18.0)
* lagoon-core chart [1.42.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-charts/releases/tag/lagoon-core-1.42.0)
* lagoon-remote chart [0.88.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-charts/releases/tag/lagoon-remote-0.88.0)

## Upgrades
There are no required actions or considerations with this release. As always, we suggest upgrading all minor versions.

## Deprecations

### In-built Drupal Tasks
* The standard drupal based tasks that Lagoon ships with (Drush ....) have been flagged as deprecated and should not be used anymore. These will need to be replaced with [custom tasks](https://docs.lagoon.sh/using-lagoon-advanced/custom-tasks/). Example replacement tasks will be provided prior to their removal.
### setEnvironmentServices
* This release introduces a deprecation of the `setEnvironmentServices` mutation to updated services for an environment, it is being replaced with `addOrUpdateEnvironmentService` and `deleteEnvironmentService`. This is because the type is being refactored to support additional information, and eventually additional functionality. For now, the actions-handler service will still support the older `setEnvironmentServices` for backwards compatibility for a short period to allow older versions of `lagoon-remote` to still work, but a new version of `lagoon-remote` will be available that will no longer provides the payload that the actions-handler uses.
### Core Registry variable
* The value for `registry` which was previously required by the `lagoon-core` chart is no longer required. If you are using this, you will need to add it under the new `unauthenticatedRegistry` setting when installing `lagoon-remote` in the `lagoon-build-deploy` section of your values file. If you aren't using an actual registry and have the example `disabled-only-use-harbor-via-deploy-controller.invalid` value, then you do not need to do anything except you can now remove the `registry` setting from your core values file.
### bytesUsed
* The environment storage return field named `bytesUsed` is deprecated. The actual value stored is `kibibytes`. A new return field called `kibUsed` exists and should be used, the returned data is the same and both fields are still returned. `bytesUsed` will be removed in a future release, make any adjustments now to use `kibUsed`. This will be a breaking change in a future release.
### addOrUpdateEnvironmentStorage
* `addOrUpdateEnvironmentStorage` is deprecated, `addOrUpdateStorageOnEnvironment` is the replacement to use as it supports the updated input value for `kibUsed`. `addOrUpdateEnvironmentStorage` will be completely removed in a future release.
### activesystems
* The ability to configure projects to use different subsystems for managing deployments/tasks has been removed. Setting any values for the `activeSystems*` fields on the project will have no effect and the fields will be removed in a future release.
