#### Release Links
* lagoon [v2.27.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon/releases/tag/v2.27.0)
* lagoon-ui [core-v2.27.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-ui/releases/tag/core-v2.27.0)
* lagoon-build-deploy-image [core-v2.27.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/build-deploy-tool/releases/tag/core-v2.27.0)
* lagoon-core chart [1.55.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-charts/releases/tag/lagoon-core-1.55.0)
* lagoon-remote chart [0.100.0](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-charts/releases/tag/lagoon-remote-0.100.0)

## Release Notes

### Lagoon Core

#### Lagoon Files Bucket Region

This release included an update to an AWS S3 library in the API. If you're using an AWS bucket for Lagoon files, you may need to now set a value in your lagoon-core helmchart values for `s3FilesRegion`. The default region is `us-east-1`, if your buckets are in a different region, you may need to configure `s3FilesRegion` to point to your specific region.

If you're using Google Cloud, or another S3 compatible storage provider, you may not need to set this. Check with your bucket provider to see if they require a region when used with the `aws-sdk-v3` library.

#### Retention Policies

This release includes retention policies as a new feature, these are only configureable by Platform Owner users. They are disabled by default, read the [documentation](../using-lagoon-advanced/retention-policies.md) for more information.

#### Initial User and Organization

First time installations often find it difficult to set up an initial user or organization. This release introduces the ability to configure an initial platform-owner user, and/or an initial organization. Check out the documentation [here](../installing-lagoon/lagoon-core.md) which mentions the values required.

### Lagoon Remote

#### Known Issues

The `remote-controller` can get into a state where all deployments are put in the queue and never started. The solution is to [deploy the previous version](https://github.com/uselagoon/lagoon-charts/blob/main/charts/lagoon-build-deploy/values.yaml#L170-L171), `v0.24.0`.

#### Build Queues

This release includes changes to the `remote-controller` that can allow for more builds to run. Once a build has completed the image build and push stage, it changes into a secondary queue which frees up a spot for a new build to start. This secondary queue has an upper limit, it defaults to the value of `qos-max-builds`. It can be increased by setting the `qos-total-builds` flag, it must be greater than the other value to be used. This feature allows builds that have slow or long running pre/post rollout tasks, or failing deployments to not prevent other builds from starting.
