docs/resources/glossary.md, before:

---
description: >-
  We know a lot of these terms and services are new to people - to make our
  documentation more accessible, we've defined them all here.
---

# Glossary

| Term | Definition |
| :--- | :--- |
| Access Mode | Controls how a persistent volume can be accessed.|
| Active/Standby | Active/Standby deployments, also known as blue/green deployments, are a way to seamlessly switch over your production content. |
| Ansible| An open-source suite of software tools that enables infrastructure as code.|
| AWS | Amazon Web Services |
| Amazon S3 Glacier | A secure and inexpensive S3 storage for long-term backup. |
| BitBucket | Git hosting owned by Atlassian, which integrates with their tools.|
| Brew | Homebrew is a package manager for OSX. |
| CA | A Certificate Authority is a trusted entity that issues Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates.|
| CDN | Content Delivery Network - distributes content via caching |
| CI | Continuous Integration |
| CIDR | Classess Inter-Domain Routing - a method of assigning IP addresses |
| CLI | Command Line Interface |
| Cluster | A unified group of servers or VMs, distributed and managed together, which serves one entity to ensure high availability, load balancing, and scalability. |
| CMS | Content Management System |
| Cron job | The cron command-line utility is a job scheduler on Unix-like operating systems. Users who set up and maintain software environments use cron to schedule jobs, also known as cron jobs, to run periodically at fixed times, dates, or intervals.|
| Composer | A package manager |
| DDEV | A Docker-based PHP development environment popular in the Drupal community. |
| DDoS | Distributed Denial of Service |
| DNS | Domain Name System |
| Docker | A container engine using Linux features and automating application deployment. |
| Docker Compose | A tool for defining and running Docker applications via YAML files. |
| Drupal | Open-source Content Management System |
| Drush | A command line shell for Drupal. |
| EC2 | Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud |
| Elasticsearch | An open-source search engine. It provides a distributed, multi-tenant-capable full-text search engine with a web interface and schema-free JSON documents. |
| Galera | A generic synchronous multi-master replication library for transactional databases. |
| Git | A free and open-source distributed version control system. |
| Git Hash/SHA | A generated string that identifies each commit. Uses the SHA-1 algorithm |
| GitHub | A proprietary version control hosting company using Git. A subsidiary of Microsoft, it offers all of the distributed version control and source code management functionality of Git as well as additional features. |
| GitLab | A web-based Git repository manager with CI capabilities. |
| Grafana | An open-source analytics and monitoring solution. |
| GraphQL | An open-source data query and manipulation language for APIs, and a runtime for fulfilling queries with existing data. |
| Harbor | An open source container image registry that secures images with role-based access control, scans images for vulnerabilities, and signs images as trusted. |
| Helm | A package manager for Kubernetes, it helps you manage Kubernetes applications. |
| Helm Charts | Helm Charts help you define, install, and upgrade even the most complex Kubernetes application. |
| HTTP | HyperText Transfer Protocol. HTTP is the underlying protocol used by the World Wide Web and this protocol defines how messages are formatted and transmitted, and what actions Web servers and browsers should take in response to various commands. |
| IAM | AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources.|
| IDE | An integrated development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of at least a source code editor, build automation tools, and a debugger.|
| Ingress controller | An Ingress controller is a specialized load balancer for Kubernetes (and other containerized) environments. |
| IPTables | A command line utility for configuring Linux kernel firewall. |
| Jenkins | An open-source automation server. |
| JWT | JSON Web Token. |
| k3s | A highly available, certified Kubernetes distribution. |
| k3d | k3d is a lightweight wrapper to run k3s in Docker. |
| k8s | Numeronym for Kubernetes \(K + 8 letters + s\) |
| k8up | K8up is a backup operator that will handle storage and app backups on a k8s/OpenShift cluster. |
| Keycloak | An open-source identity and access management system. |
| Kibana | An open-source data visualization plugin for Elasticsearch. It provides visualization capabilities on top of the content indexed on an Elasticsearch cluster. |
| KinD | Kubernetes in Docker - a tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”. Kind was primarily designed for testing Kubernetes itself, but may be used for local development or CI.|
| kubectl | The Kubernetes command-line tool which allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters.|
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. |
| Lagoon | An open-source application delivery platform for Kubernetes. |
| Lagoonize | Configuration changes to allow your app to run on Lagoon. |
| Lando | A free, open source, cross-platform, local development environment and DevOps tool built on Docker. |
| Laravel | A free, open-source PHP web framework, following the model–view–controller \(MVC\) architectural pattern and based on Symfony. |
| Let's Encrypt | Aa free, automated, and open certificate authority (CA). |
| MariaDB | A community-developed, commercially supported fork of the MySQL relational database management system, intended to remain free and open-source software under the GNU General Public License. |
| Master node | A single node in the cluster on which a collection of processes which manage the cluster state are running. |
| Microservice | The practice of breaking up an application into a series of smaller, more specialized parts, each of which communicate with one another across common interfaces such as APIs and REST interfaces like HTTP |
| MongoDB | MongoDB is a cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL database program, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with schema. |
| Multi-Tenant | A single instance of software runs on a server and serves multiple tenants - a tenant is a group of users who share common access with privileges to access the software instance. The software is designed to provide each tenant a share of the resources. |
| MVC | Model-view-controller - an architectural pattern that separates an application into three main logical components: the model, the view, and the controller. Each of these components are built to handle specific development aspects of an application. |
| MySQL | MySQL is an open-source relational database management system. |
| NGINX | NGINX is a web server which can also be used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, mail proxy and HTTP cache. |
| Node | Single EC2 instance \(AWS virtual machine\) |
| Node.js | An open-source, cross-platform, JavaScript runtime environment that executes JavaScript code outside of a browser. |
| Open source | A type of computer software in which source code is released under a license in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to study, change, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose. Open-source software may be developed in a collaborative public manner. |
| OpenSearch | A community-driven, Apache 2.0-licensed open source search and analytics suite that makes it easy to ingest, search, visualize, and analyze data.|
| OpenShift | Container application platform that brings Docker and Kubernetes to the enterprise. |
| PHP | PHP \(Personal Home Page\) is a general-purpose programming language originally designed for web development. |
| PhpStorm | A development tool (IDE) for PHP and web projects.|
| Pod | A group of containers that are deployed together on the same host. The basic unit that Kubernetes works with. |
| PostgreSQL | A free and open-source relational database management system emphasizing extensibility and technical standards compliance. |
| Public/Private Key | Public-key encryption is a cryptographic system that uses two keys -- a public key known to everyone and a private or secret key known only to the recipient of the message. |
| Puppet | An open-source software configuration management and deployment tool. |
| PV | PersistentVolume -  a piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using Storage Classes.|
| PVC | Persistent Volume Claim - a request for storage by a user. |
| Pygmy | A Lagoon flavored local development system. |
| Python | Python is an open-source, interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language. |
| RabbitMQ | An open-source message-broker software. |
| RBAC | Role-Based Access Control |
| RDS | Relational Database Service |
| Redis | An open source, in-memory data store used as a database, cache, streaming engine, and message broker. |
| Restic |An open-source backup program. |
| ROX | Kubernetes access mode ReadOnlyMany - the volume can be mounted as read-only by many nodes. |
| Ruby | An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language which supports multiple programming paradigms. It was designed with an emphasis on programming productivity and simplicity. In Ruby, everything is an object, including primitive data types.|
| RWO | Kubernetes access mode ReadWriteOnce - the volume can be mounted as read-write by a single node. ReadWriteOnce access mode still can allow multiple pods to access the volume when the pods are running on the same node.|
| RWOP | Kubernetes access mode ReadWriteOncePod - the volume can be mounted as read-write by a single Pod. Use ReadWriteOncePod access mode if you want to ensure that only one pod across whole cluster can read that PVC or write to it. This is only supported for CSI volumes and Kubernetes version 1.22+.|
| RWX | Kubernetes access mode ReadWriteMany - the volume can be mounted as read-write by many nodes. |
| S3 | Amazon Simple Storage Service. |
| SBOM | Software Bill of Materials. |
| SHA-1 | Secure Hash Algorithm 1, a hash function which takes an input and produces a 160-bit hash value known as a message digest – typically rendered as 40 hexadecimal digits. It was designed by the United States National Security Agency, and is a U.S. Federal Information Processing Standard. |
| Solr | An open-source enterprise-search platform, written in Java. |
| SSH | Secure Socket Shell, a network protocol that provides administrators with a secure way to access a remote computer. |
| SSL | Secure Socket Layer |
| Storage Classes | A StorageClass provides a way for Kubernetes administrators to describe the "classes" of storage they offer. Different classes might map to quality-of-service levels, or to backup policies, or to arbitrary policies determined by the cluster administrators |
| Symfony | Symfony is a PHP web application framework and a set of reusable PHP components/libraries, Drupal 8 and up are based on Symfony. |
| TCP | Transmission Control Protocol, a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation through which application programs can exchange data. |
| TLS | Transport Layer Security |
| Trivy | A simple and comprehensive vulnerability scanner for containers, suitable for CI. |
| TTL | Time to live or hop limit is a mechanism that limits the lifespan or lifetime of data in a computer or network. |
| Varnish | A powerful, open-source HTTP engine/reverse HTTP proxy that can speed up a website by caching \(or storing\) a copy of a webpage the first time a user visits. |
| VM | Virtual Machine |
| Webhook | A webhook is a way for an app like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, etc, to provide other applications with immediate data and act upon something, like a pull request. |
| YAML | YAML Ain't Markup Language - YAML is a human-readable data-serialization language. It is commonly used for configuration files and in applications where data is being stored or transmitted.|

Commit message:

docs: document valkey and redis-8 Lagoon images

docs/resources/glossary.md, after:

---
description: >-
  We know a lot of these terms and services are new to people - to make our
  documentation more accessible, we've defined them all here.
---

# Glossary

| Term | Definition |
| :--- | :--- |
| Access Mode | Controls how a persistent volume can be accessed.|
| Active/Standby | Active/Standby deployments, also known as blue/green deployments, are a way to seamlessly switch over your production content. |
| Ansible| An open-source suite of software tools that enables infrastructure as code.|
| AWS | Amazon Web Services |
| Amazon S3 Glacier | A secure and inexpensive S3 storage for long-term backup. |
| BitBucket | Git hosting owned by Atlassian, which integrates with their tools.|
| Brew | Homebrew is a package manager for OSX. |
| CA | A Certificate Authority is a trusted entity that issues Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates.|
| CDN | Content Delivery Network - distributes content via caching |
| CI | Continuous Integration |
| CIDR | Classess Inter-Domain Routing - a method of assigning IP addresses |
| CLI | Command Line Interface |
| Cluster | A unified group of servers or VMs, distributed and managed together, which serves one entity to ensure high availability, load balancing, and scalability. |
| CMS | Content Management System |
| Cron job | The cron command-line utility is a job scheduler on Unix-like operating systems. Users who set up and maintain software environments use cron to schedule jobs, also known as cron jobs, to run periodically at fixed times, dates, or intervals.|
| Composer | A package manager |
| DDEV | A Docker-based PHP development environment popular in the Drupal community. |
| DDoS | Distributed Denial of Service |
| DNS | Domain Name System |
| Docker | A container engine using Linux features and automating application deployment. |
| Docker Compose | A tool for defining and running Docker applications via YAML files. |
| Drupal | Open-source Content Management System |
| Drush | A command line shell for Drupal. |
| EC2 | Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud |
| Elasticsearch | An open-source search engine. It provides a distributed, multi-tenant-capable full-text search engine with a web interface and schema-free JSON documents. |
| Galera | A generic synchronous multi-master replication library for transactional databases. |
| Git | A free and open-source distributed version control system. |
| Git Hash/SHA | A generated string that identifies each commit. Uses the SHA-1 algorithm |
| GitHub | A proprietary version control hosting company using Git. A subsidiary of Microsoft, it offers all of the distributed version control and source code management functionality of Git as well as additional features. |
| GitLab | A web-based Git repository manager with CI capabilities. |
| Grafana | An open-source analytics and monitoring solution. |
| GraphQL | An open-source data query and manipulation language for APIs, and a runtime for fulfilling queries with existing data. |
| Harbor | An open source container image registry that secures images with role-based access control, scans images for vulnerabilities, and signs images as trusted. |
| Helm | A package manager for Kubernetes, it helps you manage Kubernetes applications. |
| Helm Charts | Helm Charts help you define, install, and upgrade even the most complex Kubernetes application. |
| HTTP | HyperText Transfer Protocol. HTTP is the underlying protocol used by the World Wide Web and this protocol defines how messages are formatted and transmitted, and what actions Web servers and browsers should take in response to various commands. |
| IAM | AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources.|
| IDE | An integrated development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of at least a source code editor, build automation tools, and a debugger.|
| Ingress controller | An Ingress controller is a specialized load balancer for Kubernetes (and other containerized) environments. |
| IPTables | A command line utility for configuring Linux kernel firewall. |
| Jenkins | An open-source automation server. |
| JWT | JSON Web Token. |
| k3s | A highly available, certified Kubernetes distribution. |
| k3d | k3d is a lightweight wrapper to run k3s in Docker. |
| k8s | Numeronym for Kubernetes \(K + 8 letters + s\) |
| k8up | K8up is a backup operator that will handle storage and app backups on a k8s/OpenShift cluster. |
| Keycloak | An open-source identity and access management system. |
| Kibana | An open-source data visualization plugin for Elasticsearch. It provides visualization capabilities on top of the content indexed on an Elasticsearch cluster. |
| KinD | Kubernetes in Docker - a tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”. Kind was primarily designed for testing Kubernetes itself, but may be used for local development or CI.|
| kubectl | The Kubernetes command-line tool which allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters.|
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. |
| Lagoon | An open-source application delivery platform for Kubernetes. |
| Lagoonize | Configuration changes to allow your app to run on Lagoon. |
| Lando | A free, open source, cross-platform, local development environment and DevOps tool built on Docker. |
| Laravel | A free, open-source PHP web framework, following the model–view–controller \(MVC\) architectural pattern and based on Symfony. |
| Let's Encrypt | Aa free, automated, and open certificate authority (CA). |
| MariaDB | A community-developed, commercially supported fork of the MySQL relational database management system, intended to remain free and open-source software under the GNU General Public License. |
| Master node | A single node in the cluster on which a collection of processes which manage the cluster state are running. |
| Microservice | The practice of breaking up an application into a series of smaller, more specialized parts, each of which communicate with one another across common interfaces such as APIs and REST interfaces like HTTP |
| MongoDB | MongoDB is a cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL database program, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with schema. |
| Multi-Tenant | A single instance of software runs on a server and serves multiple tenants - a tenant is a group of users who share common access with privileges to access the software instance. The software is designed to provide each tenant a share of the resources. |
| MVC | Model-view-controller - an architectural pattern that separates an application into three main logical components: the model, the view, and the controller. Each of these components are built to handle specific development aspects of an application. |
| MySQL | MySQL is an open-source relational database management system. |
| NGINX | NGINX is a web server which can also be used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, mail proxy and HTTP cache. |
| Node | Single EC2 instance \(AWS virtual machine\) |
| Node.js | An open-source, cross-platform, JavaScript runtime environment that executes JavaScript code outside of a browser. |
| Open source | A type of computer software in which source code is released under a license in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to study, change, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose. Open-source software may be developed in a collaborative public manner. |
| OpenSearch | A community-driven, Apache 2.0-licensed open source search and analytics suite that makes it easy to ingest, search, visualize, and analyze data.|
| OpenShift | Container application platform that brings Docker and Kubernetes to the enterprise. |
| PHP | PHP \(Personal Home Page\) is a general-purpose programming language originally designed for web development. |
| PhpStorm | A development tool (IDE) for PHP and web projects.|
| Pod | A group of containers that are deployed together on the same host. The basic unit that Kubernetes works with. |
| PostgreSQL | A free and open-source relational database management system emphasizing extensibility and technical standards compliance. |
| Public/Private Key | Public-key encryption is a cryptographic system that uses two keys -- a public key known to everyone and a private or secret key known only to the recipient of the message. |
| Puppet | An open-source software configuration management and deployment tool. |
| PV | PersistentVolume -  a piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator or dynamically provisioned using Storage Classes.|
| PVC | Persistent Volume Claim - a request for storage by a user. |
| Pygmy | A Lagoon flavored local development system. |
| Python | Python is an open-source, interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language. |
| RabbitMQ | An open-source message-broker software. |
| RBAC | Role-Based Access Control |
| RDS | Relational Database Service |
| Redis | An open source, in-memory data store used as a database, cache, streaming engine, and message broker. |
| Restic |An open-source backup program. |
| ROX | Kubernetes access mode ReadOnlyMany - the volume can be mounted as read-only by many nodes. |
| Ruby | An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language which supports multiple programming paradigms. It was designed with an emphasis on programming productivity and simplicity. In Ruby, everything is an object, including primitive data types.|
| RWO | Kubernetes access mode ReadWriteOnce - the volume can be mounted as read-write by a single node. ReadWriteOnce access mode still can allow multiple pods to access the volume when the pods are running on the same node.|
| RWOP | Kubernetes access mode ReadWriteOncePod - the volume can be mounted as read-write by a single Pod. Use ReadWriteOncePod access mode if you want to ensure that only one pod across whole cluster can read that PVC or write to it. This is only supported for CSI volumes and Kubernetes version 1.22+.|
| RWX | Kubernetes access mode ReadWriteMany - the volume can be mounted as read-write by many nodes. |
| S3 | Amazon Simple Storage Service. |
| SBOM | Software Bill of Materials. |
| SHA-1 | Secure Hash Algorithm 1, a hash function which takes an input and produces a 160-bit hash value known as a message digest – typically rendered as 40 hexadecimal digits. It was designed by the United States National Security Agency, and is a U.S. Federal Information Processing Standard. |
| Solr | An open-source enterprise-search platform, written in Java. |
| SSH | Secure Socket Shell, a network protocol that provides administrators with a secure way to access a remote computer. |
| SSL | Secure Socket Layer |
| Storage Classes | A StorageClass provides a way for Kubernetes administrators to describe the "classes" of storage they offer. Different classes might map to quality-of-service levels, or to backup policies, or to arbitrary policies determined by the cluster administrators |
| Symfony | Symfony is a PHP web application framework and a set of reusable PHP components/libraries, Drupal 8 and up are based on Symfony. |
| TCP | Transmission Control Protocol, a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation through which application programs can exchange data. |
| TLS | Transport Layer Security |
| Trivy | A simple and comprehensive vulnerability scanner for containers, suitable for CI. |
| TTL | Time to live or hop limit is a mechanism that limits the lifespan or lifetime of data in a computer or network. |
| Valkey | An open source, community-led successor to Redis. |
| Varnish | A powerful, open-source HTTP engine/reverse HTTP proxy that can speed up a website by caching \(or storing\) a copy of a webpage the first time a user visits. |
| VM | Virtual Machine |
| Webhook | A webhook is a way for an app like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, etc, to provide other applications with immediate data and act upon something, like a pull request. |
| YAML | YAML Ain't Markup Language - YAML is a human-readable data-serialization language. It is commonly used for configuration files and in applications where data is being stored or transmitted.|
